CS699 Lab 1 Exercises - Unix CLI
Things to try in the lab:
1. Use ​script ​command to save the work in a file named
<yourrollnumber>-lab1-inlab.script​. Do a man script first before you do this to check
how it works. You will eventually submit the script output, so you MUST do this task first.
This command will start a session in which everything you type on the terminal will be
recorded. It will return with a command prompt. Continue with the next instruction below.
Note that the script command will only record what you do in that terminal window (or
shell session) only. So, ensure that you do all your work in that window alone. Else you
will lose your work.
Note​: All the data required for the in lab assignment and the take home assignment is
given in Data.tar.gz
2. Go to your home directory using ​cd or cd ~/​. Use ​mkdir ​command to make two
directories ​lab1​ and ​assignment1​, l​ ab1​ should be ​in​ ​assignment1​ and do this with one
command.
3. Use ​cd ​command to navigate into the directories and use ​touch​ command to make 3
files in the ​lab1​ directory named ​lab1_1.txt​, ​lab1_2.doc, lab1_3.odt ​and in the
assignment1​ directory named ​assignment1_1.txt,​ ​assignment1_2.doc,
assignment1_3.odt
4. Use the ​cat​ command to copy the content of the given file​ iit.txt ​file into all the files of
assignment1​ directory and ​lab1​ directory.
5. In the ​lab1​ directory, use ​ls​ command to display only the .txt files, then only the .doc file
and then only the .odt files.
6. Use ​pwd ​command to print the full path of the ​lab1​ directory. Understand the concept of
full vs relative paths.
7. Make a file named commands.txt inside ​assignment1​ directory using ​cat ​command and
write "ls" command in it. Do NOT use any editor to do this. Make it executable ​for user
and group only​ using ​chmod ​and then execute it.
8. Use ​cat ​command to create a file called ​names.txt​ in the ​assignment1​ directory and
copy the contents of the given file ​find.txt​ in to it.

9. use the​ head​ command to display the first 15 lines of the ​names.txt​ file
10. use the ​tail​ command to display the last 15 lines of ​names.txt​ file
11. use ​more​ and ​less​ command to display the contents of the ​names.txt​ file
12. copy the file ​names.txt​ into the lab1 directory using the ​cp​ command
13. make a new directory named ​moved_content​ inside ​assignment1​ directory using ​mkdir
command and use ​mv​ command to move ​names.txt​ file into it
14. Use ​grep ​command to search the word “the” in all the .txt files of the ​assignment1
directory, also use the ​grep ​command to search the word “the” in all the files in the
assignment1​ directory.
15. Move the given file named ​info.txt​ to the ​lab1​ directory and then use the​ grep​ command
to count the occurence of the number “5” in the file.
16. Display only the “the” word in all the files in ​assignment1​ directory without displaying the
entire line using ​grep ​command.
17. Display all the “the” without considering the case sensitivity in all the files in the
assignment1​ directory using ​grep ​command.
18. Display the file name of all the files that contains the word “the” in all the files in
assignment1​ directory using ​grep ​command.
19. Be in the home directory and use ​find ​command to find the file ​lab1_1.txt​ in the
assignment1​ directory
20. Make an empty file named ​empty.txt​ inside the ​lab1​ directory using ​touch​ command,
then return to home directory and use ​find ​command to search for a file having 0 bytes
size
21. Use ​find ​ command to display the files that were accessed 0.0002 days ago in the
assignment1​ directory
22. Display the space of the disks ​in GB​ using the ​df​ command
23. Create a sleep job for 5 minutes as a background job using ​sleep​ command and list the
jobs running in the background using ​jobs​ command

24. Use ​fg​ command to bring the sleep job in the foreground and stop it using ^z. Display all
the stopped jobs using the jobs command
25. Use ​bg​ command to run the sleep job in the background and display all the running jobs
using the jobs command
26. Get the process ID of ​all​ the running processes on the machine using the ​ps ​command
27. Write a command to display all the running processes using ​ps ​command, pipeline it
with ​grep​ command to search for “bash” processes. Understand the concept of pipes in
Unix. You will use this later.
28. remove the file commands.txt from the ​assignment1​ directory using ​rm -i​.
29. use ​rm​ command to first empty the ​lab1​ directory and then use ​rmdir​ command to
remove the directory.
30. Use ​rm ​ to delete ​assignment1​ directory(non empty)
31. list the file operations using the ​ls -l ​command
32. Use ​uptime, w , finger, uname​ command to see what the output it display.
33. Using​ whereis​ command, find out ​the source, binary, and manuals sections for ​grep, ls,
man​ command​.
34. U
​ sing ​which​ command, locate the full path of the executable associated with​ dpkg, ls,
sudo ​command.
35. Use ​man​ command to see the detail of function ​ping, fgrep, rpm, tee ​command. Use
tee​ command to append the text “I love my India” into the blank file test.txt
36. **skip*** Run ​rpm​ command to check whether ​MySQL​ has been installed in the system
or not.
37. Get your ip address of your neighbor’s system and then test its network connectivity
using ​ping​ command. Use ​ifconfig​ to determine the IP address of your system.
38. Using ​wget​ command down the pdf from ​http://linux-training.be/linuxfun.pdf
39. Given the large text file ​sample.txt ​in Data folder, using emacs editor perform the
following tasks:-

a. Jump to the first line
b. Delete 5th character from line 60.
c. Add a new line after line 70 and input the text “line 60 was edited”
d. Find the entry of word “imperdiet”
e. Replace all the words “non” with “changed”
f. Save the file as tmp-1
40. Do all emacs exercises listed in slides 113/114 of the Unix CLI presentation. Become
really familiar with Emacs since its much much more than a editor - its an environment
where you can program, compile, check mail, browse the web and do anything you want
to with a computer.
41. As you know Vi (or Vim) is another popular editor on Linux/Unix. Do all the exercises
listed on slides 101/102 for Vi. Vi is the default editor present on every variant of Linux or
Unix. So, its useful to be familiar with all the shortcuts in Vi/Vim.
Submission Instructions for the in-lab work.
1. Exit the script session you started in the very first instruction of the in lab portion. Do this
using ^D. This will save the entire session into a file whose filename you specified as an
argument to the script command in the first instruction. and exit the script session.
2. Compress the file using gzip. You will end up with the script file having the .gz extension.
3. Upload this on Moodle.

Take Home assignment (feel free to do as much as
you can in the lab)
1.

​Unzip the file named ​Data.tar.gz ​from moodle, it contains the directory named ​students​ which

contains as many files as there are students with the naming convention of the file as follows:a. roll number followed by character “_” followed by college id which is unique for each
college followed by “_”,
b. followed by month(2 digit) and year(4 digit) of college graduation.
For example:- The file name ​17405_iitg_05_2013.txt​ denotes the record of student with roll
number 17405, college id​ ​iitg & graduation date May 2013.

Your task is to:a. extract out all the files of students corresponding to college code “iitb”
b. store it in separate directory named iitb.
c. Among these records, if student with graduation year is after 2015, then append the end
of the file the following message, “please apply for phd before Jan 2019”
d. followed by the calendar of Jan 2019.
2. Make a directory named ​iit,​ make 3 files named ​iit1.txt, iit2.doc, iit3.odt​ and copy the contents of
the given file ​info.txt​ into all the three files. Copy text from line number 2 to 6 from ​iit1.txt a
​ nd
paste it into a file named ​temp.txt​ in the ​iit​ directory
3. Use ​touch ​command to make a file called ​names.txt​ in the ​iit​ directory, and use ​cat​ command to
copy the contents of the (given) file ​find.txt​ in to it. Then display the names in sorted order. Also
display the contents of all the files in the ​iit​ directory with a single command.
4. Display the contents of the ​iit​ directory in a
​ scending​ order of their names. Then display the same
according to most recent modified first. Then display the same in ascending order of their size.
Then do all of the above but in ​descending​ order.
5. Count the total number of lines in all the files in the ​iit​ directory.
6. Create a cron job to delete all the .txt files older than 30 minutes in the folder Data/students on
every Wednesday after 17:00. Write the cron command as well as the shell command to delete
the files older than 30 minutes. Register the crontab file and watch its effect. Then unregister the
crontab file.
Submission instructions for the take home part of Lab 1.
1. For each of the 6 problems described above, your job is to create a sequence of unix cli
commands that accomplish the task. Write down this sequence of commands in a file
named <your roll number>-lab1-takehome-problem<problemnumber>.solution1
2. Create a tar archive of all these *.solution files in <your roll
number>-lab1-takehome-solutions.tar
3. Gzip the tar file.
4. Upload on Moodle.

1

BE VERY CAREFUL WITH THESE NAMES. We will grade using a script and if it does not find the
specific file, you will not be awarded any points.

